Release notes for 3.7.0 (#6010)
medic/medic: release-notes/docs/3.7.0.md

# 3.7.0 Release Notes

- [Known issues](#known-issues)
- [Upgrade notes](#upgrade-notes)
- [Configurable hierarchies](#configurable-hierarchies)
- [Complete reference configuration](#complete-reference-configuration)
- [Optimised form HTML generation](#optimised-form-html-generation)
- [Purging server-side](#purging-server-side)
- [Warn when replicating too many docs](#warn-when-replicating-too-many-docs)
- [And more...](#and-more)

## Known issues

None.

## Upgrade notes

### Breaking changes

> A new OS level dependency (`xsltproc`) is required for generating XFORM `html` on the server. 

Author: I don't think we have documentation about this. It's definitely not `npm install`, being an OS level dependency. It seems we don't provide arbitrary install instructions (like `apt install`)  . The readme contains no information about _how_ to install dependencies, just lists them: https://github.com/medic/medic#dependencies

### Supported software

There are no required changes to the [supported software matrix](https://github.com/medic/medic-docs/blob/master/installation/supported-software.md) from `3.0.0`.

| Node | CouchDB | Browsers | SMS bridge | Android | medic-android | medic-couch2pg |
|----|----|----|----|----|----|---|
| 8.11+ | 2.1+ | Chrome 53+, Firefox latest | medic-gateway | 4.4+ | 0.4.5+ | 3.0+ |

## Configurable hierarchies

It is now possible to configure contact hierarchies.
This allows for better tailored solutions for new projects and opens up new configuration 

> possibilities: for example having multiple person types or unbalanced place trees. 

Reviewer: I would highlight that you could have 1 or more places as well since that is significant for many deployments.

```suggestion
possibilities: for example having any number of place levels, multiple person types, or unbalanced place trees. 
```

The previously hardcoded contact hierarchy has now become the default hierarchy and 
existing projects will continue using it. For more information, please read the
[configuration information](https://github.com/medic/medic-docs/blob/master/configuration/app-settings.md#configuring-the-contact-hierarchy).

## Complete reference configuration

Version 3.7.0 includes a complete reference configuration that is enabled automatically 

> on fresh application installations. It provides a foundation for forms, data fields, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on fresh application installations. The configuration is designed as a reference application for antenatal care. It provides a foundation for forms, data fields, 
```

> and analytics and has been designed to model an ideal way of structuring and organizing 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and analytics to model an ideal way of structuring and organizing 
```

a workflow, its configuration code, and testing framework.

## Optimised form HTML generation

> Generating XFORM `html` and `xml` is moved from being executed on every device to 

Reviewer: Conceptually this only changes the HTML generation, not the XML (which is done when converting from the XLSForm in medic-conf)

```suggestion
Generating the HTML for XForms is moved from being executed on every device to 
```

being executed once on the server. 
This reduces the time to initially load forms, along with reducing the memory 
footprint of the app by not caching every form's `html` and by not storing the additional files
required for generating it. 

> ## Purging server-side

Reviewer: Trying to think of clearer way to explain what server-side purging. Here is an attempt:

```suggestion
## Improved purging now done server-side
```

> As of version 3.7.0, marking documents as no longer useful (purged) happens on the server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Marking documents as no longer useful so that they don't take up mobile device resources is now handled server-side. 
```

## Optimised form HTML generation

Generating the HTML for XForms is moved from being executed on every device to 
being executed once on the server. 
This reduces the time to initially load forms, along with reducing the memory 
footprint of the app by not caching every form's `html` and by not storing the additional files
required for generating it. 

## Improved purging now done server-side

Marking documents as no longer useful so that they don't take up mobile device resources 
is now handled server-side.
This enables devices to not download unnecessary documents during an initial replication 
and makes the actual "purging" process faster. 
For more information about changes in purging, please refer to the [purging documentation](https://github.com/medic/medic-docs/blob/master/configuration/purging-serverside.md).

## Warn when replicating too many docs

A warning is now displayed when a user would download more than the recommended maximum of 
10.000 documents. This warning is shown before starting initial replication in an attempt 
to reduce the incidence of misconfigured users.

![Warn when replicating too many docs](images/3.7.0-replication-warning.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: There are a whole heap of performance improvements and it appears that they have noticeably improved certain metrics. Consider including a section summarising the improvements with a graph to show what users can expect!

and makes the actual "purging" process faster. 
For more information about changes in purging, please refer to the [purging documentation](https://github.com/medic/medic-docs/blob/master/configuration/purging-serverside.md).

## Warn when replicating too many docs

A warning is now displayed when a user would download more than the recommended maximum of 
10.000 documents. This warning is shown before starting initial replication in an attempt 
to reduce the incidence of misconfigured users.

![Warn when replicating too many docs](images/3.7.0-replication-warning.png)

## Performance

Users can expect faster replication, faster application load time and faster form load time:

| Action                  | Tecno-J5 on 3.7 | Tecno-J5 on 3.6 | Tecno-WX3 on 3.7 | Tecno-WX3 on 3.6 |
|-------------------------|-----------------|-----------------|------------------|------------------|
| Initial load (*)        | 0:02:29         | 0:04:18         | 0:02:45          | 0:05:01          |
| Loading Contacts Tab    | 0:00:02         | 0:00:02         | 0:00:02          | 0:00:03          |
| Loading reports tab     | 0:00:20         | 0:00:32         | 0:00:25          | 0:00:44          |

> | Process a specific form | 0:00:19         | 0:00:23         | 0:00:21          | 0:00:34          |

Reviewer 3: It would be cool to see this as a bar graph showing how significant the differences are

# 3.7.0 Release Notes

- [Known issues](#known-issues)
- [Upgrade notes](#upgrade-notes)
- [Configurable hierarchies](#configurable-hierarchies)
- [Includes a new default configuration](#includes-a-new-default-configuration)
- [Optimised form HTML generation](#optimised-form-html-generation)
- [Improved purging now done server-side](#improved-purging-now-done-server-side)
- [Warn when replicating too many docs](#warn-when-replicating-too-many-docs)
- [Performance](#performance)
- [And more...](#and-more)

> ## Known issues

Reviewer 4: should this be breaking change instead of known issue? since it will not be fixed
